.TH MY-OPEN.CONFIG 5 "September 2019" "djmoch 0.0" "DJMOCH Programmers Manual"
.SH NAME
my-open.config \- terminal MIME handler database
.SH DESCRIPTION
When \fBmy open\fR is called with the \fI-T\fR flag, the my-open.config file
is consulted to determine which handler to use for the requested file's
MIME type.

The file is assumed to contain multiple rows, with each row constituting one
entry, that is, one MIME type. Similar to the mailcap(4) file, the second
element of a MIME type may be a wildcard, while the first element may not.

Each entry in my-open.config should follow the format:

<\fImimetype\fR>:<\fIdefault\fR> [<\fIfallback1\fR> <\fIfallback2\fR> ...]:
\fIfmt\fR

\fImimtype\fR specifies the MIME type of the file. \fIdefault\fR specifies the
default handler for the given MIME type. The optional \fIfallback\fR arguments
specify fallback handlers to use if the default is not available. \fIfmt\fR
describes how the arguments provided to \fBmy open\fR should be passed along
to the handler. A value of %s for \fIfmt\fR passes the provided file name along
with no additional arguments.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.TP
text/html:w3m:-T text/html %s
For files of text/html MIME type, use w3m to open the file in the terminal. The
resulting command line will look like:

w3m -T text/html \fIfilename\fR
.TP
x-scheme-handler/*:w3m lynx:%s
For files of any x-scheme-handler MIME type, use either w3m or lynx to open the
file in the terminal (preferring w3m). The resulting command line will look like:

w3m|lynx \fIfilename\fR
.PP
.SH FILES
$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/my-open/config

or

$HOME/.config/my-open/config
.SH SEE ALSO
my(1)
