.TH MY 1 "September 2019" "djmoch 0.0" "DJMOCH Commands Manual"
.SH NAME
my \- utility functions for use across dotfiles and elsewhere
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY my
\fISUBCOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmy\fR runs the subcommand specified by \fISUBCOMMAND\/\fR, passing any provided
\fIARGS\/\fR along. Many of the available subcommands amount to a list of providers
which are searched in the $PATH, with the first one found being executed. This
design allows for dotfiles to port across machines with relative ease.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.PP
.TP
\fBmailto\fR
Send email.
.sp
Command synopsis: \fBmy\fR \fBmailto\fR [\fIaddress\fR]\fR [\fIsubject\fR]
.TP
\fBsearch\fR
Search DuckDuckGo in the terminal.
.sp
Command synopsis: \fBmy\fR \fBsearch\fR [\fIterm\fR] (shell quoting rules apply)
.TP
\fBterm\fR
Open an X terminal window. This subcommand follows an order of preference for which
terminal emulator is used.
.sp
The current order is:
.sp
1. st
.br
2. urxvtc (if urxvtd is available)
.br
3. urxvt
.br
4. xterm
.br
5. xfce4-terminal
.br
6. gnome-terminal
.TP
\fBlock\fR
Lock the X session.
.TP
\fBwallpaper\fR
Set the xroot color and, if available, set the wallpaper using the feh .fehbg command.
.TP
\fBstandby\fR
Put the machine into hybrid-sleep mode.
.TP
\fBshutdown\fR
Shut down the machine.
.TP
\fBperms\fR
Search for all of the files in \fIHOME\fR beginning with a dot (i.e., a dotfile) and
sets its permissions via chmod to be inaccessible to everyone except the file owner.
.TP
\fBinit\fR
Perform initializations necessary for "moving in."
.sp
Command synopsis: \fBmy\fR \fBinit\fR [\fI\-f\fR][\fI\-c\fR]
.sp
When run with \fI\-f\fR, the command is forced to run completely, even if it has
already been run. When run with \fI\-c\fR, the user crontab is also initialized.
.sp
In addition to optionally initializing the crontab, init initializes custom termcaps, .less, ensures
the login shell is set to /bin/sh, creates an autostart entry for an available screen locker based
on a preference list and availability in \fIPATH\fR, and initializes gpg-agent.conf to point to the
correct pinentry program. Finally, init creates several folders required for proper behavior of
dotfiles.
.sp
When complete, init touches the file $HOME/._.djmoch to act as a flag for the last time the dotfiles
where updated/initialized. See the \fBlogin\fR subcommand for more details of how this file is used.
.TP
\fBopen\fR
Open a file in the configured XDG handler specific to the file's MIME type, or, optionally, in a
configured terminal handler.
.sp
Command synopsis: \fBmy\fR \fBopen\fR [\fI\-T\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.sp
When the \fI\-T\fR flag is provided, the file is opened in a terminal handler configured in a
different file. See my-open.config(5) for more information an how to configure terminal handlers.
.TP
\fBsound\fR
Adjust the sound settings or display sound status.
.sp
Command synopsis: \fBmy\fR \fBsound\fR [\fIstatus\fR] ...
.sp
If the \fIstatus\fR action is provided, then the current status of the sound sinks and sources
is put out. If the status is not requested, then other command arguments should be provided
according to pactl(1).
.TP
\fBkbopts\fR
Set X keyboard options.
.TP
\fBscreen\fR
Set screen options. This is more or less deprecated in favor of autorandr(1).
.TP
\fBbrightness\fR
Sets the brightness of the provided monitor using the xbacklight(1) utility.
.sp
Command synopsis: \fBmy\fR \fBbrightness\fR \fICTRL\fR ...
.sp
The \fICTRL\fR argument should be the name of an attached display device, or the generic
argument "monitor," which simply looks determines the name of the (only) attached display
device. The remaider of the command arguments follow the description in xbacklight(1).
.TP
\fBbattery\fR
Show information about the battery.
.sp
Command synopsis: \fBmy\fR \fBbattery\fR [\fIremaining\fR][\fItotal\fR][\fIpercent\fR]
.sp
The \fIpercent\fR argument will probably be the only one of any interest. The others are
used internally to calculate the percent, and their representation is dependent on the
operating system.
.TP
\fBstatus\fR
Print an embeddable status message showing the remaining battery percentage, the current
weather, and the time.
.TP
\fBi3status\fR
Same as status, but automatically prints the status to stdout every 15 seconds, allowing
it to be used in the status bar of the i3 window manager.
.TP
\fBcopy\fR
An os-independent way to copy text from the terminal into the system clipboard.
.TP
\fBpaste\fR
An os-independent way to paste text from the system clipboard into the terminal.
.TP
\fBnetrc\fR
Parses netrc to return username/password information for use in configuration files or
anywhere a service credential might be required. Note that this subcommand calls out
to a handler written in Python.
.sp
Command synopsis: \fBmy\fR \fBnetrc\fR \fI<server>\fR [\fIlogin\fR][\fIaccount\fR]
[\fIpassword\fR]
.sp
The \fIserver\fR argument should be the fully-qualified domian name of the server whose
credential is being requested. One of the three optional arguments, \fIlogin\fR,
\fIaccount\fR, or \fIpassword\fR may also be provided, in which case only that portion
of the credential will be provided. If none of the optional arguments are provided, then
all three will be returned. All responses are provided on stdout.
.TP
\fBdotfiles\fR
Perform one of several maintanence actions on the dotfiles.
.sp
Command synopsis: \fBmy\fR \fBdotfiles\fR <\fIargument\fR>
.sp
\fIargument\fR may be one of \fIcheck\fR, in which case the ._.djmoch file in consulted
to see when the dotfiles were last updated, or \fIupdate\fR, in which case the dotfiles
are actually updated. Whether or not \fIupdate\fR actually does anything is conditioned
on whether the dotfiles are sourced from a tarfile. If the dotfiles are sourced from a
Git repository, then \fIupdate\fR does nothing.
.TP
\fBcron\fR
Run configured cron tasks. This subcommand should be called either from a user crontab
or a user systemd timer.
.sp
Command synopsis: \fBmy\fR \fBcron\fR [\fIsystemd\fR]
.sp
If the \fIsystemd\fR argument is provided, then the job output is sent to stdout,
otherwise no output is given.
.sp
Any script located in $HOME/lib/cron.d (either physically or via link) will be
executed. Note that cron scripts that are included in the dotfiles are located in
$HOME/lib/cron.avail and must be linked into cron.d before they will be
activated.
.sp
Recall that \fBinit\fR will either place an entry in the user crontab or create a user
systemd timer to call \fBmy cron\fR.
.TP
\fBlogin_async\fR
This should really be called login_sync, since it is the synchronous (i.e. blocking)
version of the login command (see \fBmy login\fR to run as a background job).
.sp
\fBlogin_async\fR will attempt to contact the dotfiles server for up to two minutes
from the point it is called. If it is able to make contact, it consults the ._.djmoch
file to see if the dotfiles have to updated in the past week. If not, it calls \fBmy
dotfiles update\fR.
.TP
\fBlogin\fR
Calls \fBmy login_async\fR as a background job.
.TP
\fBprocesses\fR
List's the current users running processes.
.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PP
.TP
\fB0\fR
\fISUBCOMMAND\fR executed successfully.
.TP
\fB1\fR
Error executing \fISUBCOMMAND\fR.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
feh(1), chmod(1), my-open.config(5), pactl(1), autorandr(1), xbacklight(1), crontab(5),
systemd.timer(5)
